So let's make sure we can display a map as well. For that I got this area up here, there I want to render
the map
once we got the user location and for that, I will use Google Maps. Now to use Google Maps, you can just
google for Google Maps SDK and you should find various results and at some point, the Google Maps platform
here which we can get started with. On this page you'll see an overview of the different things Google
Maps offers to you and there, the Javascript API is interesting to us. So we can click on Javascript
API here and here you can learn way more about this library which you in the end have here which you
can integrate into your project and I can only recommend diving into this documentation if you want
to deeply dive into Google Maps and what you can do with it in Javascript, there is a bunch you can do
with it because in the end, Google Maps, the web page which you can visit is built with that you can
say. We'll build a basic map though and for that, we can add this import here which you'll find in this
snippet to our project,
well we cannot do that,
we have to do that.
So you can copy that and then go back to your code
and here in the index.html file above our Javascript file, you can add this import.
Now please note that this import has this your API key thing here and it has this callback thing,
you can remove the callback thing here right away,
this would allow you to execute a Javascript function right away once this is loaded,
something I don't want to do here but we have to add something for the your API key thing,
we see it's also highlighted here in this example.
Now to use Google Maps, you need a Google account and you need to set up a project with Google.
Now, that is generally free to use but you can learn more on the pricing page.
You have to have an account and you need a credit card unfortunately
but the first $200 of usage you have in every month is free
and $200,
that's a lot of usage.
Now you can dive into here and you can learn what you can do with Google Maps for $200 and what everything
costs and it's really not expensive, so with $200 you can do a lot and you can certainly
do what we do here in this project without paying anything
but you need a Google account with a credit card
unfortunately, there is no way around that.
So make sure you sign in with your Google account or create one if you don't have one already
and once you did log in, you can click on get started here and you should get this overlay here.
Now there, pick maps and also already pick places,
we'll need that later.
So check these two boxes and click on continue and then select a project and there you can simply
create a new one by clicking on create a new project and I'll name this js complete my places, you can
pick any name you want here in the end. Click on next
and now this will take a while, so let's wait for that to finish and you should be forwarded to the Google
Cloud Maps platform.
Now here confirm that for this account you want to set up billing,
now again you've got these $200 of free usage so you will not actually have to pay something
for the amount of usage we have here in this app
but you need to confirm that you want to be able to pay at least
and with that, you can click on next here and now wait for that to finish.
We see the same kind of overlay we build here in the end by the way
and then you get this API key.
Now the one you see here will be invalid by the point of time you're watching this,
so definitely use your own one,
you can't use mine.
Use this key however and plug it in here where you saw your API key, so that in the end here you have
key equals
and then that key here which you find in this box. With that key added here, we're importing the Google
Maps Javascript SDK and we can use it.
So now to use it, we need to render a map here in this area here, in the map
div here in index.html and for that, I'll again create a new class and new file in the UI folder which
I'll name map.js
and in there I want to create a class, map, which will be responsible for rendering our map. Now in this
class, we can add a constructor because what do we need to render a map and a place on it?
We need the coordinates of that place.
So here I'll expect to get the coordinates and then I want to render the map on the screen based on
these coordinates.
So I'll add a render method here in the map class and I want to call this render here once the map is
created, once this class is instantiated and before we call render however, I will store my coords in
a coordinates property of this class instance and inside of render, we now want to use the Google Maps
Javascript SDK to display a map on the screen.
Now again, the official documentation which I showed you earlier is a great place to learn all about
that,
here we will display a basic map. For this, I'll first of all check if we don't have access to a global
Google variable,
this is a global variable which is added by the Google Maps Javascript SDK we're importing here,
so we should have access to it everywhere in all the scripts that come after this import here in
our project.
So in this script we should have access to this variable, if we don't have access,
I'll throw an alert, could not load maps library
please try again later, to tell the user that something went wrong and at the moment we can't render
the map, thereafter I will return so that the lines after this if statement don't execute.
If we make it past this if statement however, we know Google Maps was loaded correctly and we can start
working on a map and working on a map is really simple,
all we got to do here is we call new, Google so using this global Google variable, .maps.map,
so in the end here we get a class or a constructor function provided by the Google Maps package which
we instantiate. Now
to this map constructor here, we have to pass the element, the DOM element in which we want to render the
map,
in my case that is this div here with the ID map. So we can select this div by its ID of course and
pass a reference to this div to this map constructor here.
So for that, we can use document get element by ID map here with a lowercase m and forward that
to the map constructor by the Google Maps package. You can also pass in a second argument where you
can configure the map, for example on which place it should be zoomed in at the beginning and there my
center, you can set a center property here and this object should be my coordinates because this center
property and you learned all about that in the official docs expects an object with a lat and a long
key and that's exactly what I want to pass into my constructor here later so that we can use that here.
We can also set a zoom property here in this configuration object and set this to 16 to be zoomed in
a bit on this map we render. Now I will store this map here in a constant, map, and I also want to add
a marker to it,
so a pin which we place on the map. We can do this with new google.maps.marker, so instantiating this
constructor function here which is also provided by the Google Maps package and to that, you pass in an
object where you configure where to place that marker and how it should look like and again in the
official documentation, you learned way more about how you can configure such a marker in detail, you find
a link to that attached to this lecture by the way and here I'll just set the position to this coordinates
again, to place the marker right in the center of the map and then we have to also tell Google Maps on
which map this marker should be placed because it's not natural that this should be this map, this marker
is created totally standalone from this map,
so we have to add a map property in the marker configuration and point at this map constant here
so that we tell Google Maps that this marker should be placed in this map.
And with that, we should have everything we need here,
we can now create this class here, instantiate it and hopefully render a map on the screen.
So for that we just need to export this class and then we can import it in share
place of course
and here in share place, I'll add a new method, maybe here below the constructor, doesn't really matter
though and I'll call it select place and I expect to get my coordinates here as an argument and in here,
I then want to render my map. Sso we can import map from ./ui/map,
so from this map file we just worked in and then here, I want to create a new map and forward my coordinates
and this should be an object with a lat and a long key which I actually create down there,
so we get exactly what we need.
So we forward this here and I now want to store this map which we create, this map instance however, in
a property named map in the place finder and I'm doing that so that when we call select place, we can
check if we already got a map in which case I actually want to reuse that current map or if we don't,
so if we already have a map,
then I actually want to call this map render,
so this method we have in there and only create a new map
if we didn't create one in the past so that if we get the user location twice in a row, we don't create
a brand new map object all the time but instead we reuse the existing one and just render a new Google
map on it
so to say. For that we just have to make sure that the render method in the map is a bit more flexible
and we can forward the coordinates to it directly, so that in our map here, in map.js, when we call
render, we expect to get the coordinates here as an input and we therefore forward coords here to
the render method instead of storing it in a property which we don't need now so that we can call it
from both in the constructor and from outside of the class
and then here, we use coordinates instead of these coordinates, also down there
and this allows us to create a new Google map, either in an already existing instance of our map class
here or in a brand new instance.
If you wanted to, you could also dive into Google Maps Javascript SDK documentation to find out how you
can use an existing map which you might already have, an existing Google Map which you can store it in
a property of the map class as well of course and just zoom to a new location if you wanted to do that.
This is also something you could do,
it's not something I'll do here though because I don't want to primarily focus on Google Maps but on
Javascript in general, so I'm fine with just creating a new Google map here,
the old one will be dropped from memory anyways as soon as we don't need it anymore.
So with that, back to SharePlace.js, we render our map in the end here with the help of the coordinates
we got
and now we just need to call select place from inside our success result method,
so instead of console logging the coordinates, we can call select place and forward the coordinates.
And with all that work, if we save that and we go back to our application, we should be able to click
on get current location and it spins, once it's done spinning, it should actually render this but I'm
getting an error, this select place is not a function
and do you know what could be the issue here? Well the issue is that we're using the this keyword here,
right and
we do this in the end in
locate user handler,
we do it here in this anonymous function but I'm using an arrow function here,
so this inside of the arrow function as you learned has the same context as outside of it, outside of
the arrow function means inside of this method
and what does this refer to inside of the locate user handler? For that we need to analyze how locate
user handler is called and it is called here when we click on this button,
so it's called upon this event and you learned about this earlier in the course. When we have an event
listener that calls a method, this inside of this method or function does not refer to the surrounding
context here,
instead this refers to the target of the event. To change this, we need to call bind here and bind this
inside of locate user handler to this,
so to the this keyword in this line here which means this as it is defined in the constructor which
indeed is our class and the instance based on it.
So with bind this, we ensure that the this keyword inside of local user handler refers to the class instance
and not to some DOM element which triggered this event. We'll by the way later need the same for submitting
this form so we can already bind this as well and now with that if we save that and we again click on
get current location, it loaded super fast and it renders something on the screen, zoomed in quite a bit
because I'm in the middle of nowhere as it seems like, if I get a new location, I'm even in the ocean
here and that's of course because I randomize my location, you should really get the pin in the location
where you're at.
So this works however, that's the main takeaway, we can render our map here, that is working we can render
our Google map here which we can display and therefore we got that working in exactly the way it should
work. And with that out of the way, let's now make sure we can also enter an address here, a street name and
find that address and display it on the map as well.